Welcome to OpenXION!

OpenXION is an implementation of the XION Scripting Language, an open standard
in the xTalk family of languages. It is based heavily upon HyperTalk, the
language used by HyperCard. It is similar to the languages used by SuperCard,
MetaCard, and Runtime Revolution. The xTalk languages are distinguished by
their English-like syntax, making them easy to learn and easy to read, write,
debug, and maintain.


Downloading OpenXION

The most recent release version of OpenXION can be downloaded from the
following URL:

	http://code.google.com/p/openxion/downloads/list

If you are on a Windows system, look for a file called OpenXION-x.x-distwin.zip
where x.x is the most recent version number.

If you are on a Mac OS X or other Unix- or Linux-based system, look for a file
called OpenXION-x.x-dist.zip where x.x is the most recent version number.

This file contains everything you need to use OpenXION. All you need to do is
unzip it to a directory of your choice.


Launching OpenXION

You can use OpenXION without any formal installation procedure. Just cd to the
directory where the archive was unzipped, then run the xion command.

On Windows:
	xion

On other systems:
	./xion

You will get a > prompt. Enter any XION statement to execute it, or any XION
expression to evaluate it. To exit OpenXION, at the > prompt enter:

	exit

For a list of command line options, run the xion command with the --help
option.

On Windows:
	xion --help

On other systems:
	./xion --help

To execute an XION script file, run the xion command with the name of the
script file.

On Windows:
	xion hello.xn

On other systems:
	./xion hello.xn


Installing OpenXION

If you would like to use OpenXION from anywhere on your system, as opposed to
just the directory where you unzipped it, simply run the install command with
administrator privileges.

On Windows:
	runas /user:Administrator cmd
	install
	exit

On other systems:
	sudo ./install

On Windows systems, the jars and xion, xiondoc, and xe commands are installed
in C:\Windows\System32. On other systems, the jars are installed in /usr/lib
and the xion, xiondoc, and xe commands are installed in /usr/bin. You can then
delete the unzipped directory.


Installing OpenXION from Source

If you would like to use the bleeding-edge version of OpenXION, you may
download, run, and install OpenXION from the svn repository. The instructions
here assume Mac OS X or another Unix- or Linux-based system. If you are on
Windows, you're on your own. The first step is probably to use Cygwin to do
this; good luck with that.

Use this command to anonymously check out the latest project source code:

	svn co http://openxion.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/main/java/OpenXION/ openxion

To compile OpenXION, cd to the checked-out directory, then run make:

	make

This will generate everything: the jar files, the various tgz files available
on the Downloads page, the Javadocs, the XIONDocs, and the distributable zips.

To install OpenXION, run make install with administrator privileges:

	sudo make install

The jars will be installed in /usr/lib and the xion, xiondoc, and xe commands
will be installed in /usr/bin.


Getting Started with OpenXION

To get started with OpenXION, follow the tutorial on openxion.org:

	http://www.openxion.org/tutorial.html


Frequently Asked Questions about OpenXION

The FAQ page on openxion.org answers many of the questions you may have about
OpenXION:

	http://www.openxion.org/faq.html

For a brief history of OpenXION, see the history wiki page:

	http://code.google.com/p/openxion/wiki/History

Much less interesting questions are answered here.


What file extension do I use for XION Scripts?

OpenXION doesn't care, but .xn is the file extension most often used.


How do I spell/capitalize XION, OpenXION, or XIONDoc?

Exactly as seen here.


How do I pronounce XION, OpenXION, or XIONDoc?

XION is pronounced EK-shun.

OpenXION is pronounced OH-pen-EK-shun.

XIONDoc is pronounced EK-shun-dock.

Programmers have a history of creating words with ambiguous or counterintuitive
pronunciation just to mess with people. Observe GIF, Linux, Mac OS X. In the
event of an XION pronunciation holy war, take whatever side you want, but I'm
siding with EK-shun.


What does XION stand for?

Officially, XION does not stand for anything.

Unofficially, you may think of it as standing for Xtalk ImplementatiON.

Officially, the file extension .xn is just a shortening of XION.

Unofficially, the file extension .xn stands for eXtremely Numerous.
